# pydotenvx

A tool inspired by [dotenvx](https://dotenvx.com/), but easier to install in python projects.

## Usage

You can load it and invoke your python scripts / apps using the action `run`:

```bash
pydotenvx run -f $path-to-dotenv-file -- python script.py
```

You can load more than one file. In case of conflicting keys, the last value overrides the previous.
Some examples are:

```bash
pydotenvx run -f $file1 $file2 $file3 -- python script.py
pydotenvx run -f $folder_with_multiple_files/*.env -- python script.py
```

In case you want to test the final values, you may run the action `list`:

```bash
pydotenvx list -f $file1 $file2 $file3
```

Your `.env` file should look like this:

```
a = "1"
b = "2"
```

Parsing is currently strict and expects values surrounded by "quotes".


## Philosophy

Compared to `dotenv` and its port `python-dotenv`, I prefer the choices from `dotenvx`:

- support for multiple dotenv files
- executable tool instead of library code

I have conflicting thoughts about encryption, so it's currently not supported - and may not ever be.

I also prefer to use this tool during development and something else to inject environment variables on deployments.

## Support for multiple dotenv files

This is just nice.

## Executable instead of library

Not to trash on `python-dotenv`, but I've seen multiple problems from invoking it in code:

- inflexibility: an app may require a file named `.env`, forbidding developers from managing .env files in different ways
- implicit: an app may try to load a ".env", with different effects if it's not there
- coupling: an app may not work without a `.env` file

These problems can be mitigated with careful planning, 
but I believe that the normal usage of `dotenvx` or `pydotenvx` will naturally avoid some of these issues.

I still thank the developers of `python-dotenv` for creating such an useful tool.

## Encryption and other features

Other features are currently not supported - there's not a plan to allow or block them.

## Development

Development is currently based on `poetry=1.6.1`, as its the package manager I'm more used to.

- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)

You may format, lint and test the code using `make all`.

---

Generated by [my-python-template](https://github.com/duarte-pompeu/my-python-template), created by [Duarte Pompeu](https://duartepompeu.com).